Let's move on to Server Side Rendering, so
we're gonna put our node js hats on here.
And I'm gonna get another
fresh copy of my repo here.
So again, make sure you're starting
with a fresh copy of the adopt me app.
That's the one that's in 12-portals and
refs.
The first part we just talked about was
code splitting as a way of reducing
your bundle size, and getting
something that time to first visual,
time to first paint, time to first
meaningful paint, all that stuff down to
the bare minimum as code splitting
away is a good way of doing that.
The other way that's very useful for doing
this is doing some server side rendering.
So I react as the the fun ability that
it can actually pre-render everything on
the server and
then send the user complete markup and
then react can take over
the existing markup on the page.
This is not again, not always the best
thing because what what is happening here
is you're adding more server time, right?
Because now the server has to do
more of like bringing in react,
running react and
then sending down the markup.
And then you send down the JavaScript,
it's still the same amount of JavaScript.
So now your HTML request is larger,
JavaScript then has to bootstrap.
Take over the page and keep rendering,
that sounds complicated, because it is
right, and it's not always helpful,
I'll say that it's frequently helpful.
But it's not always helpful so,
it's one of the things that just like,
make sure you're improving things right,
measure it.
Make sure, that your service,
especially code splitting and
server side rendering,
they're the double edged swords here and
you can actually,
worsen your performance here.
You're trading off,
like total kilobytes here for,
hopefully time to first paint, that's
what we're trying to optimize here for.
Because with code splitting,
you're downloading more code
because that Glue Code is not free.
And server side rendering you're
increasing server response time with
the hopes of the server can do it faster
than the client, which is not always true.
But that being said,
let's have some fun, let's do it.
[LAUGH] So the first thing we have to do
is we have to take all browser concerns,
all of them, out of our application.
So if this is gonna be running in node,
that means we can't refer
to window anywhere.
Right so for example, in our app.js
were importing Browser Router.
Browser Router definitely
refers to the Window so
you can't use Browser Router in Mode,
so what do we do about that?
We're gonna create a new file here and
we're gonna call it clientapp.js.
And that's gonna go in
the source directory, and
everything that happens in client app.
This is the stuff that we want
to only happen in the browser.
A good example this would be
like Google Analytics, right or
any of your analytics stuff.
You don't want that stuff to fire in Node,
you only want that stuff to fire in
browsers client side JavaScript.
So here in client app js, we're going
to import hydrate, which is going to
be different than render from react router
dom or sorry, from just react dom rather.
This is basically to say, hey, I'm
expecting complete markup at this point,
please take over this complete markup.
We're going to import browser router,
From react router dom.
We're gonna import app from ./app,
here we're gonna call hydrate,
I'm gonna put browser router and inside
of browser router we're gonna put app.
And then we're gonna say document,
oops, that's should be a comma,
document, get elementById route.
And that's it.
And then probably here I'll
just put like a note for you,
other stuff that should only happen
in the browser, like analytics.
So, this stuff won't get executed notes
to go willy nilly referring to document,
right, document doesn't exist a note
it will exists in the client.
This is where you would do all of that,
okay, let's go to app.js now.
And now we're gonna get rid of browser
router here because that's happening in
hydrate, or sorry in the clients app.
We're not gonna do render here so
we can actually just remove this
entire thing here,
that's all happening now in client app.
We have to remove the router here,
so I'm removed the router
Okay, and let's just move strict mode,
we're gonna move that in here to the app,
so
strict mode and strict mode.
Okay, and then we can get rid of this
render here all at the bottom and
we're gonna say export default app.
Okay, and
now this has been totally deep browser
a FIDE right this is now node safe to run.
If we had tried to do this in
node it would have blown up,
because browser router refers to window a
bunch of times, and so does react router,
sorry, react dom as well.
We're still not quite safe though,
our modal refers to a window in
the outside of its first execution,
which is a problem as well.
So let's go fix that, so open modal,
we have to get a little clever about this.
Because whenever this gets imported for
the first time it's gonna try and
reference documents, and
so this is gonna crash.
So let's put let modal here,
and then move this here.
Then we're gonna say,
if it exists, modal root
Then just keep it the same thing,
otherwise go fetch it from the dom.
So this is a little awkward I know and
then this will just be
let muddle route here.
Now, why am I not just
doing something like this,
well this is the kind of an expensive call
anytime that you're touching the dom.
The dom is the slowest part of
the browser, and so anytime that I do
a document.getElementByid ID
that's just a slow look up.
So this is going to hang your
render more than it should,
in my MacBook 16 inch here,
it's going to be fine.
But in someone's like really old Android
device, it might slow down a render and
make it look kind of janky.
So that's why I do this, so
the first time this will work,
it'll basically go grab this.
You might even be able to do
this with the effect, but
whatever the case this works fine.
Okay.
Now we're gonna cut up a really
quick quick node server.
So if this is your first time
running node, I'm gonna try and
keep this as simple as possible.
But before we do that one
more thing to change,
index.HTML we're gonna have the the entry
point be not app.js but client app.js.
Cause this is now the entry point for
the browser.
Okay.
Now, we're gonna have a problem
here because I can't just import
like app.js directly into my node code
still because node doesn't speak jsx.
So it has to import pre built code,
so what I'm gonna have to do is,
before I run my node server,
I have to build my node server.
Which is kind of strange, but
if you're doing server side rendering,
it's just something you have to do.
So let's go ahead and do this,
open your package.JSON And
we're gonna put a couple
more scripts in here.
The first one is gonna be build client.
And we're gonna say parcel build --
public- url ./dist/ source/index.html.
Now what is this doing parcel builds, it's
just getting a production build ready and
you're just telling you that
the the public url here is going to be
coming from dist.
Then we're gonna do a build server,
And where your parcel build,
the destination is gonna
be dist slash server.
This is going to go to disk and
that's fine, but
we don't want our node server and
our client stuff going to the same place.
That's why we do the dash D there
to tell it a different place.
We're do --target node because we're
letting it's like don't build for
browsers.
Build for node js, and we're gonna say
index.js, we're about to go build this.
So that's where that's coming from,
then we're gonna make just like an easy,
do both.
So I'm gonna do npm run build client and
npm run build server,
so, now I'm gonna say npm run build and
it runs both of them.
Okay, last one here,
I'm going to put start,
this is how I'm gonna
start my node server.
npm-s which I think is silent,
run build and node, dist server,
so our build server/index.js.
So we kind of had to like build
a little bit of a house of cards here,
build the client, build the server,
and then start the node server.
That's basically what you and
I did there together.
But now nicely, we can even write
jsx directly in our note code, and
it's gonna be a little bit
easier to read that way.
Otherwise we'd have to go back to
react.creed element calls, which is,
once you write jsx you never
wanna go back to doing that.